Hello? Hello, Mr. Green? Yes. It's Michelle. Hi.
How are you, Michelle? I'm fine. How are you?
I'm sorry. Is she there? Is she there?
Are
you ready? Okay. Okay, I'll tell you what's going
to go on. The tapes I'm using, they last 30 minutes,
and then there'll be a beep, and I'm going to have to
get up and turn them over. And the machine's in
another room, so when there's a beep, you'll
understand what's going on. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
Okay.
Well, let me give you an overview sort of how I'm
going to do this. I'm going to ask you about the
Communist Party, what exactly it means, the
American Communist Party, as far as does it align
itself with Marxism, Leninism, Castroism,
Chinese Communism, I don't know, Maoism. Then
I'll ask you about your background, your
childhood. Okay. your experiences that led you to
join. Yeah. And then I'll ask you about
the trial.
Things happened to you during the trial. Then I'll
ask you questions about your experience as a
fugitive and about the FBI and their harassing
your wife and your children and the techniques
they used. And then I'll ask you about some of your
experiences in Leavenworth. And then I'll ask you
about, sort of ask you if you could do it over again,
how would you do it? And then ask you about the talk
you were going to give here.
Quite a long subject. Uh-huh. Is that okay? Okay.
Okay. Well, let's begin with the Communist Party.
When you say communists, what exactly do you mean?
What I mean by that is a movement designed in which
the wealth and productive powers are inside our
own common people.
uh-huh
uh-huh Yes.
Yes. Yeah.
Yeah. Well, okay, so, well, do you align yourself
with strict Marxist, pure Marxist theory, or do
you, I mean, because there's been application of
Marx by Lenin and Stalin, and there's... Well,
we call ourselves Marxist-Leninists, really,
because we believe in the fundamentals of Marxist
analysis of Catholic society and the world
itself. uh-huh
uh-huh Yeah.
Mm-hmm. He
believed what happened was that the first country
that takes the path of revolution will be that
country, not that it necessarily goes developed
economically, where the oppression is so great
that people revolt. And the only answer to them is
to break away from imperialist domination in
another direction. That was a very fundamental
addition to Marxism. So, in other words, it didn't
have to be industrial?
It doesn't have to be as firm as
it is. But Lenin was proven right because old
Russia was a very backward country. Yeah. And then
the revolution switched that. Take in terms of the
other countries in which it occurred, China,
Cuba, and so forth, zero, so underdeveloped
countries. While they were the most developed
industrial countries in the world, Yeah.
Well, at one point in your book, you talk about
visiting the Soviet Union. And you say that you had
seen that they had advanced considerably. They
had made, I'm not sure what the term is, but you were
impressed with the progress they had made since
the revolution? Well, I was there when I referred
my book to the
period I was there. In the 30s? Which was not too
long after the revolution. Yeah. In 1934, 1932,
isn't it? Yes. And I described how terrible
conditions were. Yeah. But at the same time, I was
inspired by the kind of a people's movement there
was Do
you still hold that? Well,
let's look at it this way. It was very likely the
most underdeveloped country in Europe at the
time. Today, the Soviet Union is the second... the
most important state in the world. And certainly,
it has developed tremendously. It could not have
happened without one, of course. Furthermore,
with all of the backwardness that they still have,
lack of things, there are some things that they
have that we in the West do not appreciate at all.
For example, there is no illiteracy in the Soviet
Union. That's the way it is. free
education for all, from kindergarten all the
way through university, including stipends for
those who go to college or university and need
public help. There's also free health care for the
very most part, hospital care, which we have a long
way from having. In fact, we're going backwards,
cutting, spending on Medicare and other things
like that. We
don't have any unemployment in this country.
Also, they have no unemployment. They have a
society based on the principle of full
employment. The last time they had unemployment
was in 1930 or 31. Since then, they've had full
employment. Now, all those things are
tremendously important. Also, take red. There's
no... A
family
has to pay more
than
10% of its earnings on rent. The average is really
about 5%, 6%. And that is all established by law
that prohibits people being taken advantage of or
creating conditions in which people have no means
of living and have to be homeless. There are no
homeless in the Soviet Union, as against this very
restriction of ours, Yeah.
But despite the lack of hunger and that everyone
does have shelter, don't the Politburo and those
up in the social structure, don't they have a lot
more than the rest of the people? I mean, I don't
think it's that equal. Well, I don't know. First of
all,
Karl Marx himself put forth the rules for
different stages of development. He said the
first stage would be socialism, in which the
productive forces of society have not yet reached
the point where everybody can have everything on
equal basis. He said the rules for the first period
would be following the motto, from each,
according to his ability, to
each according to his contribution, meaning that
those who produce more, who all give more to
society, have a right to have more in order to
encourage further activity and giving them
incentive for producing and doing more. He
says
in the second stage, which he called the communist
period, then he says the productive force of
society would reach the point where it would be
possible to operate on a different model. The
model, he says, from each according to his
ability, to each according to his needs. Because
in that second stage... So
we're still caught, or they're still caught in the
first stage? I see. And when will the second...
When do you predict the second stage coming about?
Yeah. Because
as it is, they have not yet developed an infinity
vast size of 30 million. And this population, they
have not developed, come even closest yet to the
per capita industrial production in this
country. So they have to catch up with the
capitalist West and productivity and things like
that. So certainly they're not going to have the
same... Don't you think that's an unrealistic
goal to catch up with?
No, no, no. Let me ask you this question, though, to
make this point. We are now going through a very
complex revolution in science and technology. In
fact, we are having more and more robots replacing
robots.
like
4 million robots engaged in the American
industry. By 1990, and that's only four years from
now, they expect there will be from 50 to 100,000
robots in the industry. And the process will
continue in an accelerated way. Today, we are
there on the top of an economic cycle. We're not
having a depression right now, but government
figures admit that there are 7 to 10 million
unemployed in the United States. Now,
what will happen tomorrow
as these robots take over and if you enter a
department, the number of unemployment is going
to continue to grow all the time. Now, there's one
thing. The day will very likely come when every
automobile is built, will be built by robots doing
all the manual labor. But the day will never come
when a robot buys an automobile or even a
McDonald's hamburger. In other
words, what I'm saying is that the very progress
that automation and scientific innovation is
producing is going to create a situation in which
the less and less workers will be employed,
because so long as there's a profit motive in doing
that, those who invest in these computers and
robots are out to make more profit. They don't do
the damn job when more workers are getting work.
That's true, but... The change has got to come. Can
I ask you, where do you get your percentages from?
My what? The percentages you just gave, the
statistics, the amount, the robots.
Oh, I got that.
Oh, yes. And I'll give you the source if you want.
Yeah. There's a booklet put out by the American
Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial
Organizations, the ASLCI. Uh-huh. And it's
called... The
Future of Work. Yeah.
And it was put out a year ago. It discusses
precisely this topic. And it gives official and
global statistics in regard to robotization and
everything else. Okay. So that's the source of it.
Well, so do you... Does the American Communist
Party align itself with the Soviet Communist
Party then? As far as... Well, do you share their
ideologies more so than, say, with Castro or with
Chinese?
No, there's no matter of sharing
with them more than with the Cubans or with people
in Angola or anywhere. But because we all
essentially have the same ideology, often
there'll be differences, like in any science. All
scientists
may agree on certain principles as time goes on,
but they differ in regard to different questions.
And so are the same in regard to the world communist
movement. They agree with one general ideology,
but just as Lenin had to make changes, as Marx
originally said, because the world had changed,
so today we have changes that are taking place that
have to change to come. A country
that's
underdeveloped has one set of problems than a
country that's developed, so that you'll find the
applications will differ. And also, sometimes
there are sharp differences, like Chinese under
Mao Zedong that developed its own ideology, which
now they are . And Yugoslavs have differences. the
Romanians have
differences. In other words, those who say that
the Soviet Union sort of dominates all that, they
can see that that's not so because of the very
differences that are there. I see. And sometimes
so sharply that one socialist country will start
attacking another. Yeah. An ideological
question. Well, are there obvious differences
between the United States and other... And
between the U.S. party? Yeah. And the... And, say,
other countries? Well... Say the Soviet Union or,
say, Q... Try to
apply the principles of Marxism-Leninism to the
United States. Uh-huh. Well, yes, take in regard
to a country like old Russia there. The revolution
came by a violent open field. Okay. And in your
book, you say that you don't advocate violence at
all. Yes, that's
right. At this point, we're so far off that we don't
know under what conditions. But we believe that it
is possible to bring about a very important change
in our own violence, and that if violence comes,
it's not going to come from the people or from the
communists. The opposition, yeah. like
in Chile or elsewhere, and they will, in the face of
the demand of people for change, they're going to
try, or they have up to now, most of the time, to try
to crush it. And then the people have got to resist
somehow. No. So that you put, or take in the
different countries that have been oppressed so
terribly in the third world, you have guerrilla
fighting. Because There
is no democracy under which to bring about change.
And as John Kennedy said once, he said, if people
are not permitted to make a revolution
peacefully, they can make it violent. And that's
what's happening there. But certainly, we would
commend, or sharply, anyone who thought to change
guerrilla warfare in this country. And
during the
1960s, when you had some of these young people who
thought the revolution was around the corner and
were trying to imitate what had happened in other
countries, the guerrilla warfare, we put the
shots down against them. In fact, I wrote a book
called The New Left, Anarchist or Marxist, The New
Radicalism, Anarchist or Marxist, which
appeared and got considerable circulation in
that period where I took issue with it. I
see.
Hmm. Okay, well, let me ask you questions about
your background, then. So what were your parents?
Were they... Did they... My parents were not born
in this country. Yeah. Uh-huh. One was born in...
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh. We
lived
at
that time on Jewish. We lived
in what was known as the Jewish ghetto. Nowadays
you don't hear Jewish ghettos. You get Puerto
Rican ghettos, Mexican ghettos, things like
that. Then black ghettos, not in their world.
Were your parents politically involved? Were
they a member of
any...
Uh-huh. Uh-huh. He died
at 33 years of age. I was the
oldest of three children. That's why you started
to work so young. And then I had to help
out in every way I could. To help my mother who
worked. Your uncle Isidore, though, was a
socialist. He was a socialist. By the way, during
that period of time, I was younger. He was a
socialist, but he was quiet.
Although
he is very well-known, he served, he was sentenced
to a 10-year prison term and served a number of
years in black, which was an opposition to the war.
Yeah. And I remember that as a child, as I grew up, I
couldn't understand why someone was forced to go
to prison. Mm-hmm.
But in
my neighborhood, as
I described in the book, there was a socialist
center, and workers, sick and dead, benefit from
their choral groups, other cultural groups, and
also meetings with the Socialist Party and what
their youth organization was, the Young People's
Socialist Party. Yeah. So that... Yeah.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh. Uh
huh.
Uh huh.
Well, you went to one of their meetings, the
young...
Yeah.
And they were very friendly to you and very
inviting. They invited you to join.
I see. What's his name, Mr. Harry Gaines? Gannis.
Gannis, okay. And he said... At one point he says
something about you don't have to worry your
generation is lucky before you reach the age of 25
who will have lived through an American socialist
revolution. When I joined, I was asked whether I
couldn't get
a meeting with my friends at the locker.
Backward
Russia can't be very long before it comes through
developed countries of the United States. My
first question comes from one of the young people.
I guess the question we're all very, very
interested in hearing the answer. How long will it
take before the revolution comes to the United
States? And he said, well, he said... Marxism
is
a science,
social science, not dependent on what happens,
whether what the ruling class does, also to what
extent the mass movement is created, what the
character, the leadership of the movement, all
that. But then if you looked at our crestfallen
faces, you'd say, well, these kids are lucky. For
anyone who leaves 25 years of age will live through
the revolution. Uh-huh.
Oh,
use
the term, it's a science. Use the term science,
social science. Now, why do you use the term
science?
Why do I call it a social science? Yes. Well,
because it's a science that's science. It
analyzes the entire course of human society,
ensuring that a man started, a woman started, a
human being started, a woman started. There were
no class divisions. People tended to share. We
have to work in common in order to survive. Uh-huh.
Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Nowadays,
it's confessed itself. So what finally happened,
however, that was the first and the longest stage
of human history, primitive communal society.
Then what happened was, by the development of
agriculture, and husbandry, it became, and we
developed in a certain, first primitive tools,
which enhanced productivity, and what happened
was that a surplus was created.
for
a ruling class,
a
group,
to separate themselves from the rest of society in
terms of income and in terms of certain interests.
So what happened then was that there was the first
ruling group, class divisions of society. And
because there were people who were lived
in
different areas and often would have
overpopulation or would have natural disasters
like fires or terrific storms or earthquakes and
what have you. People tended to move elsewhere.
Also it has consequences even in collision with
others. In the early period when one tried
Yeah.
Uh-huh. Can you... Can you hold on? I'm sorry. It's
just beeping and I need to turn it off. Hold on just
one minute.